Welcome back in this video we're going to talk about Jesus and Jesus.
Other than optimizing images which we have talked about already.
Zipping is probably the biggest and the best way to optimize performance.
And luckily for us it's really really simple to implement.
You see by default when you compress a file or folder using the zip command it will have the same file
name as it did before but now will have the extension dot GZ and also the files are going to be significantly
smaller.
We're simply making these files smaller.
Something that we're very well aware of how that benefits performance.
Now how do we get this Jesus to.
It sounds extremely useful and it's very very easy to implement.
For example in an express app on an express server all you need to do is to require the compression
NPM package that is to install compression and then use it as a middleware app to use compression.
And just by doing that all of your content that you sent to the client is going to be JE's it OK.
Now how do we test this out.
Well by default all modern browsers allowed GCP and get how pages for example does this automatically.
If we go to our robo friends app and I open up the networked app in here if I refresh my page I see
I get a ton of requests if I click on the first document and I scroll down to response headers.
I see that content decoding is Jesus if I keep scrolling down to the CSSA file I see that the content
coding is Jesus if I do the javascript fall again it's Cheez-It and this is done automatically we'll
see that it's also serve from our service worker if I do a hard refresh.
We see that our file sizes are again quite small.
And this is all because is it if it wasn't Jees it this will be significantly bigger for in most Web
sites that you visit if he go through here and you look at their headers of their files.
Most of them are JE's it and as we saw with Express all we need to do is run the compression NPM middleware
and you can pretty much everything that you send to the client.
For example here's a list of the file types that allow you to get to Jesus things you can do Jason.
You can do a shemale CSA us and many many other types you pretty much should be buying everything and
if you're not then you have to ask yourself what is the reason that you're not.
There's very very few reasons not to use it.
Now you're also wondering to yourself What about if I don't have an Express server what I have for I
have something like host skater that hosts my web site or blue host and most of those Web sites use
something called Engine X or apache web server and those you can think of as a simpler express server
that are really really good at just sending a shemale file CSSA files javascript files and you don't
have to configure anything blue host and host gaitered does all that for you.
And they usually have something like a configuration file and this is a configuration file example of
engine X..
All we need to do is say gee zip on and you have gs that automatically enabled in most places because
it is so important for performance.
Have this enabled by default.
But as you saw it's very simple to check if you're using it.
You simply go to the network tab and check to see what kind of encoding it has.
Now just a quick heads up.
There is one thing that was created by Google that is actually a little bit better than Jees up and
it's called Broadley and it actually most of the time has 20 percent better compression than GS and
websites are starting to use and more and more.
Right now the adoption isn't 100 percent there yet and some browsers are still implementing the full
thing coding by broadly.
But if you go to Web sites like Product Hunt and let's say I refresh the page here if I go to the very
top to the document and I go to the content decoding I see that they're using B.R. which is short for
Broadley.
So keep an eye on.
Broadly it will probably surpass Jesus and will become the dominant compression algorithm that will
be used on Web sites.
But either way these two tools just absolutely improve your performance.
There's no reason not to use them.
And as you saw they are extremely easy to use.
But that's it for now.
I'll see in the next one.
But by.